# Phase-3-Project--Categorized-To-Do-List, with a Sinatra based API

This is a full-stack project meaning it conststs of the React front-end part, and a backend part, with the API being 
generated by Ruby's very own Sinatra and Active Record to support the React front-end. 

This project is also part of the requirements to complete phase 3 of the moringa + flatiron shool curriculum (Ruby programming language)

## Author
This Project was Created and Edited by **Dennis Mburu Mwaura**.

## Project Description
This project is a development of my previously react front end application only, which dealt with creating a single page application of a categorized to do list. However, since this time round majority of the focus was to build a sinatra API backend that uses Active Record to persist data in a database, the react front end part was also heavily edited so as to incorporate the new routes that would be generated by our the backend application controller.

Some other back-end requirements include: 
- [x] *Having a minimum of two models with a one-to-many relationship.*
- [x] *Create API routes in sinatra that handles at least three different CRUD actions for at least one Active Record model(s).*
- [x] *Have a separate React frontend application that interacts with the API to perform CRUD actions.*
- [x] *Have separate classes for each of your models, and create instance and class methods as necessary.*

## Project Setup Instructions.
In order to set up this project on your locak machine, you will first have to clone it.It consists of 2 folders, one for the front end and the other for the backend.

After cloning, first change the directory to the front end folder and run a quick **npm install** on the command line. This will install all the necessary node modules required for the react front-end.
Once the installation is complete, you can run **npm start** to go live and view the react project on your web- browser

With this 2 tasks complete, change directory to the backend folder and run a quick **bundle install** which will also install the necessary required gems for the backend application.
After bundle install, you will need 2 more comands to set up your server and get it live.

First, you have to run **bundle exec rake db:migrate** which will create your database and set up all your tables in the local environment. You can also run **bundle exec rake db:seed** to populate your tables with some starter data, though this is not entirely neccessary. 

Last but not least, run **bundle exec rake server** to get your server running and host your database locally. After starting the server, you will however need to refresh your react frontend application in the browser, so that a connection can be established. 

You can now add new tasks, mark them as done, delete and fetch your new tasks once you add them to your database.


## CopyRight & License Information
This is an Open Source Project with an MIT license. For more Information on the license terms and condition, see the attached [LICENSE](./LICENSE)

